Add max cut qpu vignette (#478)
dwavesystems/dwave-ocean-sdk: docs/quantum_research/vignette_maxcut.rst

.. _qpu_vignette_maxcut:

====================================================

> Quantum Annealing versus LR-QAOA on Max-Cut Problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Max Cut: QA Vs. LR-QAOA
```

This is a very technical title, intended for technical people, so it seems to me okay to write it in concise technical language so it looks good in the graphic

<img width="854" height="397" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d42e67f-4210-4de7-b5ba-b471f6d7a30f" />

====================================================

This is a response to the paper "Measuring what matters: A scalable framework for application-
level quantum benchmarking" [Abo2026]_ by authors at IonQ.
Part of the paper uses LR-QAOA, a variational quantum algorithm, to solve max cut problems
on regular and fully-connected graphs on IonQ Forte. This report compares the results to those

> from quantum annealing on D-Wave's Advantage2 system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An IonQ paper, “Measuring what matters: A scalable framework for
application-level quantum benchmarking” [Abo2026], uses linear-ramp quantum
approximate optimization algorithmLR-QAOA, a variational quantum algorithm,
to solve `maximum-cut <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_cut>`_ problems on
regular and fully-connected graphs on IonQ Forte. This vignette compares the
results to those from quantum annealing on D-Wave's Advantage2 system.
```

Problem Instances
=================

The problems are instances of max cut on 3- and 4-regular graphs on 24 and 36 vertices and
fully-connected graphs on 12 and 16 vertices, with one instance per class. The graphs and

> optimal solutions are given in the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/ionq-publications/apps-benchmark/tree/main>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problems are instances of max cut on
`regular graphs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_graph>`_ of degree 3 and
4 (cubic and quartic graphs) on 24 and 36 vertices and fully-connected graphs on
12 and 16 vertices, with one instance per class. The graphs and optimal
solutions are given in the
`IonQ GitHub repository <https://github.com/ionq-publications/apps-benchmark/tree/main>`_.
```

> The max cut problem is to partition the vertices of a graph into two sets such that the number

Reviewer: I would move lines 20 - 27 ("The max cut problem is to partition ... and :math:`s_i` is a spin variable.") up to either line 12 (before Problem Instances) or at least before the preceding paragraph (i.e., first define max cut and then list instances)

Author: Thanks, I moved it to the beginning of the "Problem Instances" section.

of edges (or the sum of the weights of the edges) between the two sets is maximized.
The Hamiltonian can be expressed as:

.. math:: H[s] = \sum_{(i,j) \in E(G)} w_{ij} s_i s_j,

where :math:`E(G)` is the set of edges in the graph, :math:`w_{ij}` is the weight of the edge
between vertices :math:`i` and :math:`j`, and :math:`s_i` is a spin variable.

Methodology
===========

> Since the problem graphs are relatively small compared to the size of D-Wave's Advantage2,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the problem graphs are relatively small compared to the size of the Advantage2 QPU,
```

We use "Advantage2" as an adjective

the graphs can be embedded multiple times into a single QPU and sampled from simultaneously.

> The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio of that sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio (AR) of that sample.
```

Because the graphics show "AR"

> The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio of that sample.

Reviewer: "sampled from ... best solution from each read"
How is "read" being used here? Is it equivalent to one sample or all the samples for a job submission: your code has ``num_reads=5``

> D-Wave's minorminer is used to find parallel minor embeddings of the problem graphs onto the

Reviewer 2: link to `minorminer`?

> Advantage2 Zephyr hardware graph topology. The number of embeddings found for each problem

Reviewer 2: Link to Zephyr docs?

> instance is given in the table below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ocean software's :ref:`index_minorminer` is used to find parallel minor
embeddings of the problem graphs onto the Advantage2 QPU's
:ref:`Zephyr <topology_intro_zephyr>` topology. The number of embeddings found
for each problem instance is given in the table below:
```

.. table:: Number of embeddings per problem instance
   :width: 60%

   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | Graph Type                | Number of Embeddings |
   +===========================+======================+
   | Clique with n=12          | 113                  |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | Clique with n=16          | 66                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 3-regular graph with n=24 | 147                  |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 3-regular graph with n=36 | 94                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 4-regular graph with n=24 | 127                  |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 4-regular graph with n=36 | 71                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+

Parallel minor embeddings can be found using D-Wave's minorminer. For this study, embeddings were

> selected based on a maximum chain length of 4 and best average chain length out of 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this study, embeddings were selected based on a maximum :term:`chain length`
of 4 and best average chain length out of 10.
```

Previous paragraph says minorminer already

> The problems were run with the ParallelEmbeddingComposite and ScaleComposite with extended J ranges

Reviewer 2: More possible links here. I will stop highlighting and defer to @JoelPasvolsky on whether we want to fill the text with links or not

Author: References added from Joel's suggestions. Thanks!

> on D-Wave's Advantage2_system1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problems were run with the
:class:`~dwave.system.composites.ParallelEmbeddingComposite` and
:class:`~dwave.preprocessing.composites.scale.ScaleComposite` composites with
:ref:`extended J ranges <property_qpu_extended_j_range>` on D-Wave's
``Advantage2_system1`` QPU.
```

The following code shows an example of creating binary quadratic model (BQM) for a max cut problem,

> embedding it multiple times into the QPU, sampling from the QPU, and returning the sampleset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example of creating a binary quadratic model
(:term:`BQM`) for a max-cut problem, embedding it multiple times into the QPU,
sampling from the QPU, and returning the :ref:`~dimod.SampleSet`.
```

.. testcode::

    import networkx as nx
    import dimod
    from minorminer import find_embedding
    from dwave.system import ParallelEmbeddingComposite, DWaveSampler

>     from dwave.preprocessing.composites import ScaleComposite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from dwave.preprocessing.composites import ScaleComposite
    from dwave.system import DWaveSampler, ParallelEmbeddingComposite
    from minorminer import find_embedding
```

    # create problem graph
    G = nx.random_regular_graph(2, 10)

    # create bqm for max cut on G
    bqm = dimod.BinaryQuadraticModel(vartype = dimod.SPIN)

    for u, v, g_data in G.edges(data = True):
        bqm.add_quadratic(int(u), int(v), g_data.get('weight', 1))

    # find parallel minor embeddings of G into the QPU graph
    qpu_sampler = DWaveSampler(solver='Advantage2_system1')
    qpu_graph = qpu_sampler.to_networkx_graph()

>     num_embeddings = 10

Reviewer 2: Not a deal-breaker, but how do we know that 10 is all that fit? I would do something like this instead:

```   
keep_embedding = True
while keep_embedding:
        embedding = find_embedding(G.edges, qpu_graph)
        if len(embedding) > 0:
            parallel_embeddings.append(embedding)
            qpu_graph.remove_nodes_from([node for val in embedding.values() for node in val])
       else:
           keep_embedding = False
```

Author: Thanks, I changed it to what you suggested

    parallel_embeddings = []

    for _ in range(num_embeddings):
        embedding = find_embedding(G.edges, qpu_graph)
        if len(embedding) > 0:
            parallel_embeddings.append(embedding)
            qpu_graph.remove_nodes_from([node for val in embedding.values() for node in val])

    # create sampler with parallel embeddings and scale composite
    embedded_sampler = ParallelEmbeddingComposite(ScaleComposite(qpu_sampler), embeddings=parallel_embeddings)

    # sample from the QPU
    sampleset = embedded_sampler.sample(
        bqm,

>         num_reads=5,

Reviewer: the choice of 5 reads per submission is worth justifying

        annealing_time=20,
        quadratic_range=qpu_sampler.properties["extended_j_range"],
        bias_range=qpu_sampler.properties["h_range"],
        auto_scale=False
    )

Results
=======

Time-to-Solution
----------------

The computation of time per sample used for the results below follows the conventions
from the paper. In the `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_,
the time per shot is computed by taking the total runtime, subtracting some unspecified
overhead time and dividing by the number of shots, which is 5,000. This gives a time per shot of
0.89 seconds for IonQ Forte. Since it is unclear how much overhead was removed, the time per
sample for D-Wave's Advantage2 system is taken to be the annealing time plus the readout time.
For max cut on the 4-regular graph with 36 nodes and 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time, the time

> per sample is 2.37e-08s for D-Wave's Advantage2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
per sample is 23.7 nanoseconds for the Advantage2 QPU.
```

The approximation ratio (AR) of a solution is the energy of that solution divided by the
energy of the optimal solution. The time-to-solution (TTS) at 99% confidence for a specified

> value of AR_min is calculated as :math:`TTS = N_{shots}*t_{shot}`, where

Reviewer: AR_min is not defined

Author: Thanks, I put an explanation in line 138.

:math:`N_{shots} = \ln(0.01)/\ln(1-p_s)`. Here, :math:`p_s` is the proportion of samples whose
AR is greater than or equal to AR_min. The reported TTS is modified to be the maximum
of the computed TTS and the time per sample (:math:`t_{shot}`). Since more than 99% of the
samples from D-Wave's Advantage2 system are at or above all values of AR_min in the plot,

> the TTS for D-Wave is equal to the time per sample, which is 2.37e-08s.

Reviewer 2: I would add a bit more clarification. Something like:

Note that in the proposed TTS formula, a probability of success above 99% results in `N_{shots} < 1`, but a fraction of a shot unphysical. We therefore use the integer ceiling function to ensure shots are integers `N_{shots} =Ceil[ \ln(0.01)/\ln(1-p_s)]`. This results on a TTS equal to the time per sample 2.37e-08s.

Author: Thanks, updated with more clarification

> the TTS for D-Wave is equal to the time per sample, which is 2.37e-08s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the TTS for D-Wave is equal to the time per sample, which is 237 nanoseconds.
```

The time-to-solution results are displayed in :numref:`Figure %s <vignetteMaxCutTTS>`.

> D-Wave's Advantage2 system observes a speedup of 7 to 10 orders of magnitude over IonQ Forte.

Reviewer: "observes" --> demonstrates, provides, shows...

Also in the figure's caption

Author: Changed to "demonstrates"

.. figure:: ../_images/vignette_maxcut_tts.svg
    :name: vignetteMaxCutTTS
    :width: 80%
    :alt: maxcut-tts

    D-Wave's Advantage2 system observes a speedup of 7 to 10 orders of magnitude over IonQ Forte.

Sample Distribution
-------------------

In the `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_,

> the estimated time per shot for IonQ Forte is 0.89s. For the max cut problem on the 4-regular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the estimated time per shot for IonQ Forte is 0.89 s. For the max cut problem on the 4-regular
```

graph with 36 nodes, the percentage of samples above 90% AR is approximately 10% for IonQ Forte.
For D-Wave's Advantage2 with 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time and 2.37e-08s per sample, the

> percentage of samples above 90% AR is 100%. In fact, when taking the best solution found for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Advantage2 QPU with 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time and 23.7 nonoseconds per sample, the
percentage of samples above 90% AR is 100%. In fact, when taking the best solution found for
```

each sample of the parallel embeddings of the problem in the QPU, all have an AR of 100%,
corresponding to the optimal solution.

The sample distributions shown in :numref:`Figure %s <vignetteMaxCutHistogram>` include all samples
across all embeddings from D-Wave's Advantage2 system.

.. figure:: ../_images/vignette_maxcut_histogram.svg
    :name: vignetteMaxCutHistogram
    :width: 80%
    :alt: maxcut-histogram

    Each sample from D-Wave's Advantage2 system is greater than all samples from IonQ Forte.

Approximation Ratios and Time per Sample
----------------------------------------

The table below shows the approximation ratios and time per sample for IonQ's Aria-1

> and Forte-1 systems and D-Wave's Advantage2 system. The reported approximation ratio

Reviewer: Forte-1 hasn't been mentioned until now, is it the same as forte?

Author: I think Forte-1 is the name of the specific backend.

(AR) is the mean AR across all samples for a given problem instance. The effective
approximation ratio (AR_eff) is the mean effective AR, which is the AR rescaled
with respect to a random baseline (AR_rand), where :math:`AR_{rand} = \mu_{rand} + 3\sigma_{rand}/\sqrt{5,000}`.
Here, :math:`\mu_{rand}` and :math:`\sigma_{rand}` are the mean and standard deviation
of the ARs taken from 5,000 random samples.

In the original table from the paper, the values
are purported to be effective AR, but some values appear to be regular AR based on
the appearance of the plots. Using the calculated values of AR_rand, the missing values
(whether AR or AR_eff) are estimated and added to the table. The values
reported for D-Wave's Advantage2 system are mean AR and AR_eff with 20 :math:`\mu s`
annealing time.

The results show that quantum annealing on D-Wave's Advantage2 system finds a better mean
approximation ratio for all problems and with much shorter sample times compared to LR-QAOA
on IonQ's Forte and Aria systems. All but one of the mean AR values for D-Wave's Advantage2
system are 1, corresponding to the optimal solution.

> .. table:: Approximation Ratios and Time per Sample

Reviewer: Need a space between number and parenthesis in all the table entries

   | 3-reg, n=36      | --                       | 0.7841(0.5280)            | --                               | 1.0(1.0)                      | 2.37e-08                              |
   +------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
   | 4-reg, n=24      | --                       | 0.8668(0.6365)            | --                               | 1.0(1.0)                      | 2.38e-08                              |
   +------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
   | 4-reg, n=36      | --                       | 0.8009(0.5197)            | 0.89                             | 1.0(1.0)                      | 2.37e-08                              |
   +------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------------+-------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

>    | FCW, n=12        | 0.8711(0.3728)           | 0.8669(0.3821)            | --                               | 1.0(1.0)                      | 2.44e-08                              |

Reviewer: "FCW" needs to be unpacked somewhere nearby

Author: I added a description to the first paragraph of the section

   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | Clique with n=16          | 66                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 3-regular graph with n=24 | 147                  |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 3-regular graph with n=36 | 94                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 4-regular graph with n=24 | 127                  |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+
   | 4-regular graph with n=36 | 71                   |
   +---------------------------+----------------------+

For this study, embeddings were selected based on a maximum :term:`chain length`
of 4 and best average chain length out of 10.

The problems were run with the
:class:`~dwave.system.composites.ParallelEmbeddingComposite` and
:class:`~dwave.preprocessing.composites.scale.ScaleComposite` composites with
:ref:`extended J ranges <property_qpu_extended_j_range>` on D-Wave's
``Advantage2_system1`` QPU.
The following code shows an example of creating a binary quadratic model
(:term:`BQM`) for a max-cut problem, embedding it multiple times into the QPU,

> sampling from the QPU, and returning the :ref:`~dimod.SampleSet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sampling from the QPU, and returning the :class:`~dimod.SampleSet`.
```

Sorry, my mistake, this is a class, the above should work

.. testcode::

    import networkx as nx
    import dimod
    from dwave.preprocessing.composites import ScaleComposite
    from dwave.system import DWaveSampler, ParallelEmbeddingComposite
    from minorminer import find_embedding

    # create problem graph
    G = nx.random_regular_graph(2, 10)

    # create bqm for max cut on G
    bqm = dimod.BinaryQuadraticModel(vartype = dimod.SPIN)

    for u, v, g_data in G.edges(data = True):
        bqm.add_quadratic(int(u), int(v), g_data.get('weight', 1))

    # find parallel minor embeddings of G into the QPU graph
    qpu_sampler = DWaveSampler(solver='Advantage2_system1')
    qpu_graph = qpu_sampler.to_networkx_graph()

    parallel_embeddings = []

    keep_embedding = True
    while keep_embedding:
        embedding = find_embedding(G.edges, qpu_graph)
        if len(embedding) > 0:
            parallel_embeddings.append(embedding)
            qpu_graph.remove_nodes_from([node for val in embedding.values() for node in val])

>        else:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        else:
```

That missing space was causing the doctest failure

The approximation ratio (AR) of a solution is the energy of that solution divided by the
energy of the optimal solution. Let :math:`p_s` be the proportion of samples whose
AR is greater than or equal to a designated lower bound (denoted AR_min).
The time-to-solution (TTS) at 99% confidence for a specified
value of AR_min is calculated as :math:`TTS = N_{shots}*t_{shot}`, where
:math:`N_{shots} = \ln(0.01)/\ln(1-p_s)`.
Note that in the proposed TTS formula, a probability of success above 99% results in
:math:`N_{shots} < 1`, but a fraction of a shot is not possible. Therefore, the integer
ceiling function is used to ensure shots are integers: :math:`N_{shots} = \lceil \ln(0.01)/\ln(1-p_s) \rceil`.
Since more than 99% of the samples from D-Wave's Advantage2 system are at or above all
values of AR_min in the plot, this results in a TTS equal to the time per sample, 23.7
nanoseconds.

The time-to-solution results are displayed in :numref:`Figure %s <vignetteMaxCutTTS>`.
D-Wave's Advantage2 system demonstrates a speedup of 7 to 10 orders of magnitude over IonQ Forte.

.. figure:: ../_images/vignette_maxcut_tts.svg
    :name: vignetteMaxCutTTS
    :width: 80%
    :alt: maxcut-tts

>     D-Wave's Advantage2 system demonstrates a speedup of 7 to 10 orders of magnitude over IonQ Forte.

Reviewer: Until now random baseline (AR_rand) is not mentioned so worth adding a sentence to the caption that also shown is the result of random samples described below

Author: Added, thanks!

Sample Distribution
-------------------

In the `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_,
the estimated time per shot for IonQ Forte is 0.89 s. For the max cut problem on the 4-regular
graph with 36 nodes, the percentage of samples above 90% AR is approximately 10% for IonQ Forte.
For the Advantage2 QPU with 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time and 23.7 nanoseconds per sample, the
percentage of samples above 90% AR is 100%. In fact, when taking the best solution found for
each sample of the parallel embeddings of the problem in the QPU, all have an AR of 100%,
corresponding to the optimal solution.

The sample distributions shown in :numref:`Figure %s <vignetteMaxCutHistogram>` include all samples
across all embeddings from D-Wave's Advantage2 system.

.. figure:: ../_images/vignette_maxcut_histogram.svg
    :name: vignetteMaxCutHistogram
    :width: 80%
    :alt: maxcut-histogram

>     Each sample from D-Wave's Advantage2 system is greater than all samples from IonQ Forte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Every sample from D-Wave's Advantage2 system has a higher AR than all samples from
    IonQ Forte.
```

Missing "AR"

results to those from quantum annealing on D-Wave's Advantage2 system.

Problem Instances
=================

The max cut problem is to partition the vertices of a graph into two sets such that the number
of edges (or the sum of the weights of the edges) between the two sets is maximized.
The Hamiltonian can be expressed as:

.. math:: H[s] = \sum_{(i,j) \in E(G)} w_{ij} s_i s_j,

where :math:`E(G)` is the set of edges in the graph, :math:`w_{ij}` is the weight of the edge
between vertices :math:`i` and :math:`j`, and :math:`s_i` is a spin variable.

The problems are instances of max cut on
`regular graphs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_graph>`_ of degree 3 and
4 (cubic and quartic graphs) on 24 and 36 vertices and fully-connected graphs on
12 and 16 vertices, with one instance per class. The graphs and optimal
solutions are given in the
`IonQ GitHub repository <https://github.com/ionq-publications/apps-benchmark/tree/main>`_.

Methodology
===========

Since the problem graphs are relatively small compared to the size of the Advantage2 QPU,
the graphs can be embedded multiple times into a single QPU and sampled from simultaneously.

> The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio (AR) of that sample.

Reviewer: "The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio (AR) of that sample."
 Unclear what "read" means here relative to sample: it can be used to mean job submission of ``5000//len(parallel_embeddings)`` samples per read or as ``sample==read``) so a word or two of clarification would be great.

Author: Good point; I added a sentence to clarify

    # find parallel minor embeddings of G into the QPU graph
    qpu_sampler = DWaveSampler(solver='Advantage2_system1')
    qpu_graph = qpu_sampler.to_networkx_graph()

    parallel_embeddings = []

    keep_embedding = True
    while keep_embedding:
        embedding = find_embedding(G.edges, qpu_graph)
        if len(embedding) > 0:
            parallel_embeddings.append(embedding)
            qpu_graph.remove_nodes_from([node for val in embedding.values() for node in val])
        else:
           keep_embedding = False

    # create sampler with parallel embeddings and scale composite
    embedded_sampler = ParallelEmbeddingComposite(ScaleComposite(qpu_sampler), embeddings=parallel_embeddings)

    # sample from the QPU
    sampleset = embedded_sampler.sample(
        bqm,
        num_reads=5000//len(parallel_embeddings),
        annealing_time=20,
        quadratic_range=qpu_sampler.properties["extended_j_range"],
        bias_range=qpu_sampler.properties["h_range"],
        auto_scale=False
    )

Results
=======

Time-to-Solution
----------------

The computation of time per sample used for the results below follows the conventions

> from the paper. In the `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_,

Reviewer: Might cause a little confusion about what is taken from "the paper" (meaning [[Abo2026]](https://output.circle-artifacts.com/output/job/99ce94de-3869-4ce4-aa3f-d415134097fb/artifacts/0/docs/_build/html/bibliography.html#abo2026)) and what from the Application-Centric Benchmark Verification Report. If parts from both, might be simpler to combine, something like "The computation of time per sample used for the results below follows the conventions
from [abo2026] and `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_. Therefore, the time per shot is computed ..."

Author: Changed to the statement you provided

the estimated time per shot for IonQ Forte is 0.89 s. For the max cut problem on the 4-regular
graph with 36 nodes, the percentage of samples above 90% AR is approximately 10% for IonQ Forte.
For the Advantage2 QPU with 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time and 23.7 nanoseconds per sample, the
percentage of samples above 90% AR is 100%. In fact, when taking the best solution found for
each sample of the parallel embeddings of the problem in the QPU, all have an AR of 100%,
corresponding to the optimal solution.

The sample distributions shown in :numref:`Figure %s <vignetteMaxCutHistogram>` include all samples
across all embeddings from D-Wave's Advantage2 system.

.. figure:: ../_images/vignette_maxcut_histogram.svg
    :name: vignetteMaxCutHistogram
    :width: 80%
    :alt: maxcut-histogram

    Every sample from D-Wave's Advantage2 system has a higher AR than all samples from
    IonQ Forte.

Approximation Ratios and Time per Sample
----------------------------------------

The table below shows the approximation ratios and time per sample for IonQ's Aria-1

> and Forte-1 systems and D-Wave's Advantage2 system on all instances of 3- and 4-regular

Reviewer: Unclear how the specification of these two systems relates to the preceding: do all previous mentions of Forte mean ``Forte-1`` or might they mean a different system? The Application-Centric Benchmark
Verification Report only mentions Forte but I see Forte-1 a few times in https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.11781. If all the shown results are for Forte-1 we can say that earlier.

Author: Thanks, I changed all instances of "Forte" to "Forte-1"

of edges (or the sum of the weights of the edges) between the two sets is maximized.
The Hamiltonian can be expressed as:

.. math:: H[s] = \sum_{(i,j) \in E(G)} w_{ij} s_i s_j,

where :math:`E(G)` is the set of edges in the graph, :math:`w_{ij}` is the weight of the edge
between vertices :math:`i` and :math:`j`, and :math:`s_i` is a spin variable.

The problems are instances of max cut on
`regular graphs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_graph>`_ of degree 3 and
4 (cubic and quartic graphs) on 24 and 36 vertices and fully-connected graphs on
12 and 16 vertices, with one instance per class. The graphs and optimal
solutions are given in the
`IonQ GitHub repository <https://github.com/ionq-publications/apps-benchmark/tree/main>`_.

Methodology
===========

Since the problem graphs are relatively small compared to the size of the Advantage2 QPU,
the graphs can be embedded multiple times into a single QPU and sampled from simultaneously.
Therefore each read from the QPU is comprised of a number of samples equal to the number of
embeddings. The best solution from each read is taken to compute the approximation ratio
(AR) of that sample.

> Ocean software's :ref:`index_minorminer` is used to find parallel minor

Reviewer 2: :ref:`index_minorminer` doesn't render correcly as a link on my end

Author: I have the same issue, but it is working for Joel

(:term:`BQM`) for a max-cut problem, embedding it multiple times into the QPU,
sampling from the QPU, and returning the :class:`~dimod.SampleSet`.

.. testcode::

    import networkx as nx
    import dimod
    from dwave.preprocessing.composites import ScaleComposite
    from dwave.system import DWaveSampler, ParallelEmbeddingComposite
    from minorminer import find_embedding

    # create problem graph
    G = nx.random_regular_graph(2, 10)

    # create bqm for max cut on G
    bqm = dimod.BinaryQuadraticModel(vartype = dimod.SPIN)

    for u, v, g_data in G.edges(data = True):
        bqm.add_quadratic(int(u), int(v), g_data.get('weight', 1))

    # find parallel minor embeddings of G into the QPU graph
    qpu_sampler = DWaveSampler(solver='Advantage2_system1')
    qpu_graph = qpu_sampler.to_networkx_graph()

    parallel_embeddings = []

    keep_embedding = True
    while keep_embedding:
        embedding = find_embedding(G.edges, qpu_graph)
        if len(embedding) > 0:
            parallel_embeddings.append(embedding)
            qpu_graph.remove_nodes_from([node for val in embedding.values() for node in val])
        else:

>            keep_embedding = False

Reviewer 2: this indent is misaligned

Author: Fixed, thanks

    # sample from the QPU
    sampleset = embedded_sampler.sample(
        bqm,
        num_reads=5000//len(parallel_embeddings),
        annealing_time=20,
        quadratic_range=qpu_sampler.properties["extended_j_range"],
        bias_range=qpu_sampler.properties["h_range"],
        auto_scale=False
    )

Results
=======

Time-to-Solution
----------------

The computation of time per sample used for the results below follows the conventions
from [Abo2026]_ and the `Benchmarking Verification Report <https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/68836d4838193cb461ebc7d2/69dd6ffef477113de9cb64a0_IonQ_Benchmarking_TTS_Verification_Report.pdf>`_.
Therefore, the time per shot is computed by taking the total runtime, subtracting some unspecified
overhead time and dividing by the number of shots, which is 5,000. This gives a time per shot of
0.89 seconds for IonQ Forte-1. Since it is unclear how much overhead was removed, the time per
sample for D-Wave's Advantage2 system is taken to be the annealing time plus the readout time.
For max cut on the 4-regular graph with 36 nodes and 20 :math:`\mu s` annealing time, the time

> per sample is 23.7 nanoseconds for the Advantage2 QPU.

Reviewer 2: I'm missing something... how is the time per sample 23.7 nanoseconds if annealing time is 20us and readout is in the order of 200us?

Author: Updated time per sample

(AR) is the mean AR across all samples for a given problem instance. The effective
approximation ratio (AR_eff) is the mean effective AR, which is the AR rescaled
with respect to a random baseline (AR_rand), where :math:`AR_{rand} = \mu_{rand} + 3\sigma_{rand}/\sqrt{5,000}`.
Here, :math:`\mu_{rand}` and :math:`\sigma_{rand}` are the mean and standard deviation
of the ARs taken from 5,000 random samples.

In the original table from the paper, the values
are purported to be effective AR, but some values appear to be regular AR based on
the appearance of the plots. Using the calculated values of AR_rand, the missing values
(whether AR or AR_eff) are estimated and added to the table. The values
reported for D-Wave's Advantage2 system are mean AR and AR_eff with 20 :math:`\mu s`
annealing time.

The results show that quantum annealing on D-Wave's Advantage2 system finds a better mean
approximation ratio for all problems and with much shorter sample times compared to LR-QAOA
on IonQ's Forte-1 and Aria-1 systems. All but one of the mean AR values for D-Wave's Advantage2
system are 1, corresponding to the optimal solution.

> .. table:: Approximation Ratios and Time per Sample

Reviewer: @eordog, In the last commit this table is malformed and not rendering

Reviewer: The problem is that in the second row (``3-reg, n=36``), the "|" of the last (rightmost) column is moved in one space

Author: It's updated now, thanks!

Reviewer: Thanks, LGTM!
